Dear Author,

Thank you again for submitting your manuscript Manuscript ID:
LingVan.2021.0054
Title: “Complexity Trade-Offs and Equi-Complexity in Natural
Languages: A Meta-Analysis’’

to our journal Linguistics Vanguard (LingVan). Your manuscript has
been reviewed positively on the whole but requires minor modifications
prior to acceptance. The comments of the reviewer(s) are included at
the bottom of this e-mail.

I invite you to respond to the reviewer(s)’ comments and revise your
manuscript. We request that the revised paper be submitted within
forty-five (45) days.

To revise your manuscript, please login to
https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/lingvan and enter your Author Center,
where you will find your manuscript title listed under “Manuscripts
Awaiting Revision”. Under “Actions”, click on “Create a Revision”.
Your manuscript number has been appended to denote a revision.

You may also click the link below to start the revision process (or
continue the process f you have already started your revision). If you
use the link below you will not be required to login to ScholarOne
Manuscripts.

PLEASE MAKE SURE TO CONFIRM YOUR CHOICE ON THE WEB PAGE AFTER CLICKING
ON THE LINK

https://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/lingvan?URL_MASK=f2d8cb3dac7d4554a728
307a543610c3

When submitting your revised manuscript, you should also respond to
the individual comments made by the reviewer(s). Please add a
point-by-point reply to the reviewer(s)’ comments.

You will be able to respond the comments made by the reviewer(s) under
File Upload – File Designation – Author’s Response to Reviewer/Editor
Critique.

Reply to the reviewer(s)’ comments is mandatory; revised manuscripts
without reply will be sent back to the author.

Revisions cannot be made online in the submitted version of the
manuscript available on the ScholarOne website. Instead, revise your
original manuscript and save it on your computer. Please also
highlight the changes to your manuscript within the document by using
underlining or colored text. Once the revised manuscript is prepared,
you can upload and submit it through your Author Center.

Your original files will remain available to you when you upload your
revised manuscript. You may delete these files or keep them.

Please pay attention to the order of your uploaded files: the first
one is the reply to the reviewer(s)’ comments, followed by the revised
manuscript, and, if applicable, Tables and Figures, and Supplementary
Material.

If you decide to keep the original files, please make sure that these
are the last ones in the order of your uploaded files.

Please note that, in order to prepare the manuscript for publication,
you will need to take the following additional steps:

- Choose up to 5 keywords for your paper, and enter them into the
appropriate place on the journal’s ScholarOne editorial management
system

- If your paper is part of a special issue, ensure that one of your
keywords is the designated keyword for the special issue; if you are
not sure what this keyword is, please contact your editor for the
issue

- Verify that the total word count of the paper, including footnotes,
but excluding references, data, and any ancillary materials, does not
exceed 5000 words

- Edit the format of your paper to ensure that it strictly adheres to
De Gruyter Mouton’s stylesheet
(http://www.degruyter.com/staticfiles/pdfs/mouton_journal_stylesheet.p
df)

- Ensure that your paper is proofread and corrected by an individual
with mastery of English academic style


Once again, thank you for submitting your manuscript to LingVan. I
look forward to receiving your revision.

Kind regards,

Dr. Kaius Sinnemäki
Area Editor
Linguistics Vanguard


##################

Reviewer 1:

Nature of contribution
The article provides an interesting quantitative analysis of
linguistic complexity from different perspectives: trade-off and
equi-complexity.

Specific strengths/ weaknesses
The article is very well written and nice to read. The used methods
and data are clearly provided and allow the readers to follow what was
done.

Appropriateness of the article
The paper definitely fits the special issue on linguistic complexity.

Steps to improve
While the article is limited in terms of space, a few details could be
further clarified. Moreover, the conclusion of the article oversells a
bit the results. More details are provided in the comments below.

Nevertheless, it should be pointed out that the general evaluation on
the article is positive :-)

REVIEWER’S SCORING
(5, Excellent; 4, High; 3, Medium; 2, Low; 1, Inacceptable)
5

Further comments to the Author

As said in the general comments, this is a very well written paper,
which provides the materials and code. The general evaluation of the
paper is positive. If most articles were written in such a clear way,
it would make the reviewing process much smoother in general.

Nevertheless, I still have some comments on the reported results and
the methods. In general, I feel that the authors are a bit overselling
the results:

- The features of the shared task were directly imported in the data
for the analysis, which has an effect on the output of the analysis.
For instance, several features are probably auto-correlated by
definition, e.g., SI_dep_dl, SI_double_dl, and SI_head_dl. Doing a PCA
on these features could be helpful to visualize how the features
interact. But more importantly, this has a direct impact on the
interpretation of the results: on p13: "The strongest examples of
positive correlations stem from the domain of morphology, suggesting
that here different researchers largely agree in their
operationalization of complexity" and on p17: "To conclude this
section: We find that roughly half (48%) of the significant Spearman
correlations for pairs of measures are negative. Hence, there is
considerable evidence for complexity trade-offs.". a) Since the
features were not filtered, it is likely that the amount of positive
and negative correlations might be inflated by chance b) likewise, the
amount of positive correlations in a domain might also be positively
or negatively inflated. As a more detailed example, to really say that
most researchers agree on how to measure morphological complexity, it
would be necessary to know which measures were generated by which team
and control for that during the testing. I am not saying that this
should be done here, but it should at least be clearly mentioned as a
limitation.

- p18: Figure 6 is not readable unless with a big zoom in, I suggest
to make it larger or have it as landscape on an entire page.
Furthermore, the density here is also likely to be influenced by the
choice of the features, as mentioned in the preceding comment.

- P19 :"More generally, in all 946 pairwise tests for overall
complexity shifts between these 44 languages, we find only 6 (0.006%)
cases where𝑝 <0.05. ": I am not really understanding what was
compared pairwisely here. Could you explain it a bit more?

- P21: "We have here presented a meta-analysis of complexity
measurements across 79 typologically diverse language of 34 families":
This is extremely overselling the diversity of the data, as most of
the output is based on Track B from the UD, which is largely biased
toward Indo-European languages. This limitation should be clarified in
the text.

- The output is based on simple correlation tests, which do not
control for the effects of family or area or researcher who created
the measures. This should be clearly mentioned in the limitations


References:

- Baerman et al 2015: The list of authors is not complete(?) and the
place of the publisher is missing.
- Deutscher 2009: the page numbers are missing
- Fenk-Oczlon and Fenk 2005: the page numbers are missing
- Fenk-Oczlon and Fenk 2011: the place and publisher are missing
- A grammar of Kalaallisut: incomplete reference
- Gutierrez-Vasques and Mijangos 2018: the editors are missing
- Glottolog ref: it should be ':' after Jena
- Hockett 1958: the ':' is missing after Oxford
- Kortmann and Schröter 2020: the page number is missing
- Miestamo et al 2008: the place of publisher is missing
- Newmeyer and Preston 2014: the place of publisher is missing
- The format of PhD theses (Kusters 2003, Oh 2015) should be
synchronized
- Sampson and Trudgill 2009: the place of publisher is missing
- Please re-check the page numbers for journal articles that only have
one page, e.g., Sinnemaeki 2014 is 179-195





Reviewer 2:

Nature of contribution
The aurthors analyze the results of the first Interactive Workshop on
Measuring Language Complexity (IWMLC) held in Freiburg in 2019.1 In
the workshop, seven teams of researches had the shared task to assess
the complexity of languages using measures of their choice.

The paper proposes to take the diversity of viewpoints with regards to
linguistic complexity as a given, and to capture the complexity of a
language by a vector of measurements, rather than a single value.

The authors assess the statistical support for two controversial
hypotheses: the trade-off hypothesis and the equi-complexity
hypothesis. To this end, they furnish a meta-analysis of 33 complexity
metrics applied to texts written in 79 languages of 34 families.

The trade-off hypothesis is partially supported, in the sense that
half of the significant correlations between measures are negative.
The equi-complexity hypothesis, on the other hand, is largely
confirmed. While the authors find evidence for complexity differences
in the subdomains of morphology and syntax, overall complexity vectors
of even typologically diverse languages turn out virtually
indistinguishable.

Specific strengths/ weaknesses
Strengths
- a large variety of measures for complexity
- a somewhat large variety of languages (79)
- clear definitions and measures
- some new insights

Weaknesses
- corpora are smallish
- variety of languages could be increased

Appropriateness of the article
The paper seems highly appropriate for the journal, as it offers an up
to date review of morphological and syntactic complexity with a large
variety of methods  and clear results

Steps to improve
I don't have suggestions

REVIEWER’S SCORING
(5, Excellent; 4, High; 3, Medium; 2, Low; 1, Inacceptable)
4

Furhter comments to the Author
Nice work, I don't have suggestions for improvement
